# KnowThyBasis
The source code for the CHES 2024 paper on 6-bit lightweight S-box implementations - "Know-Thy-Basis: Decomposing $\mathbb{F}_{2^{6}}$ for Lightweight S-box Implementation."

The naming convention for the Verilog Code generation file is as follows.

Using Conventional Bases (N-N, N-P, P-N, P-P):

VCG_SMS23_t: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree t = 2, 3 using first 2-degree extension and then 3-degree extension.

VCG_SMS23_3_2: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree 3 with non-zero linear term using first 2-degree extension and then 3-degree extension.

VCG_SMS32_t: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree t = 2, 3 using first 3-degree extension and then 2-degree extension.

VCG_SMS32_3_2: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree 3 with non-zero linear term using first 3-degree extension and then 2-degree extension.

Using Special Normal Bases (SN-N, SN-P):

VCG_SMSS23_t: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree t = 2, 3 using first 2-degree extension and then 3-degree extension.

VCG_SMSS23_3_2: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree 3 with non-zero linear term using first 2-degree extension and then 3-degree extension.

VCG_SMSS32_t: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree t = 2, 3, 4, 5 using first 3-degree extension and then 2-degree extension.

VCG_SMSS32_3_2: Verilog code generation file for the S-box of degree 3 with non-zero linear term using first 3-degree extension and then 2-degree extension.

The naming conventions for the sage codes that are utilized in the Verilog code generation are as follows.

S-box with no linear terms:

  SMSE1E2_d_b1b2.sage: E1 and E2 are the first and second order of extension (E1E2=23, 32). d comes from the power mapping x^d, and b1 and b2 are the bases for each level extension.
  
  SMSSE1E2_d_b1b2.sage: E1 and E2 are the first and second order of extension (E1E2=23, 32). d comes from the power mapping x^d, and b1 and b2 are the special normal bases for each level extension.
  
S-box with non-zero linear terms:

  SMSE1E2_d_2_b1b2.sage: E1 and E2 are the first and second order of extension (E1E2=23, 32). d comes from the power mapping x^d, and b1 and b2 are the bases for each level extension.
  
  SMSSE1E2_d_2_b1b2.sage: E1 and E2 are the first and second order of extension (E1E2=23, 32). d comes from the power mapping x^d, and b1 and b2 are the special normal bases for each level extension.

The naming convention used for the Verilog codes is as follows.

LUT: The look-up table-based implementation.

ANF: The algebraic normal form-based implementation generated by sage from the lookup table.

SMSE1E2_d_b1b2_k_l.v: E1E2=23, 32. d=5,10,17,20,34,40,13,19,26,38,41,52,23,62; b1b2=nn, np, pn, pp. k corresponds to the primitive polynomial number and l corresponds to the isomorphism mapping (l=1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6 since there are only six isomorphisms possible).

SMSSE1E2_d_b1b2_k_l.v: Everything is the same as above the extra S in SMSS is denoted for the special normal bases.

SMSE1E2_2_d_b1b2_k_l.v, SMSSE1E2_2_d_b1b2_k_l.v: The Verilog codes for the S-boxes with non-zero linear terms in conventional and special normal bases. (E1E2=23, 32; d=13,19,26,38,41,52)

The file BestDesign contains the best design of the Verilog code for each SMS S-box with different choices of bases. 
